Methods in Collection Interface:

    > add(E e):

        Adds the specified element to the collection.
        Returns true if the collection changed as a result of the operation (i.e., the element was added).

    > addAll(Collection c):

        Adds all the elements in the specified collection to the current collection.
        Returns true if the collection changed as a result.

    > clear():

        Removes all elements from the collection.
        The collection becomes empty after this operation.

    > contains(Object o):

        Returns true if the collection contains the specified element.

    > containsAll(Collection c):

        Returns true if the collection contains all the elements in the specified collection.

    > isEmpty():

        Returns true if the collection is empty (i.e., contains no elements).

    > iterator():

        Returns an Iterator over the elements in the collection.
        Allows traversing the collection sequentially.

    > remove(Object o):

        Removes a single instance of the specified element from the collection, if it exists.
        Returns true if the collection changed as a result.

    > removeAll(Collection c):

        Removes from the collection all of its elements that are contained in the specified collection.

    > retainAll(Collection c):

        Retains only the elements in the collection that are contained in the specified collection.
        Removes all other elements.

    > size():

        Returns the number of elements in the collection.

    > toArray():

        Returns an array containing all the elements in the collection.

    > toArray(T[] a):

        Returns an array containing all the elements in the collection. The runtime type of the returned array is that of the specified array.

    > equals(Object o):

        Compares the specified object with the collection for equality.
        Returns true if the collections are equal.

    > hashCode():

        Returns the hash code value for the collection. This is used for hashing-based collections like HashSet or HashMap.


Additional Methods:

    List Interface (inherits from Collection):

        > get(int index):

            Retrieves the element at the specified index in the list.

        > add(int index, E element):

            Adds the element at the specified index in the list.

        > remove(int index):

            Removes the element at the specified index.

    Set Interface (inherits from Collection):

        > No specific additional methods beyond the ones inherited from Collection,
          but Set ensures that duplicate elements are not allowed.

    Queue Interface (inherits from Collection):

        > offer(E e):

            Inserts the specified element into the queue, returning true if it was successful.

        > poll():

            Retrieves and removes the head of the queue, or returns null if the queue is empty.

        > peek():

            Retrieves, but does not remove, the head of the queue, or returns null if the queue is empty.