
>> Java:
    Java is a high level programming language.
    a programming language is used to express computations or calculations that can be performed with a computer.

>> Java is having two steps of program execution.
    > Source Code Compilation   : The source code converted into bytecode.
    > Bytecode Execution     : Bytecode will execute and display the output.

>> Java source file name:
    > In java, you can declare any no.of class, at most one public class in one java source file with .java extension.
    > In that classes, you can give at most one public class only, if you doesn't give a class as a public, you can give any name to file.
    > But if you give class as a public you must give source file name as a class name only.

    > In source file for suppose you give ('A', 'B', 'c') classes A is public, so the source file name is A.java.
    > The is main method contained B class. If you compile A.java source file, compiler will create A.class, B.class, C.class files.
    > In this .class files you can only execute B.class file only, because B class contain main method.

    NOTE: In one source file you can create multiple classes, java compiler will create every class to .class execution file.


>> Java is mainly used for platform independent applications. platform - Operating system

    ## Platform independent:
        Platform independence in Java refers to Java  bytecode will run on any platform (OS) without modification.

        > Source Code Compilation:
            Java source code (.java files) is written in a human-readable format.
            The Java Compiler (javac) compiles this source code into an intermediate, and format called bytecode (.class file).
        
        > Bytecode Execution:
            Bytecode is not tied to any specific platform or processor. Instead, it is designed to be executed by the JVM.
            Each platform (Windows, macOS, Linux, etc.) has its own implementation of the JVM. 
            This JVM acts as an interpreter between the platform and the Java bytecode.
        
        > Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA):
            Since bytecode is platform-independent and the JVM is platform-specific, motto of Java "Write Once, Run Anywhere" (WORA). 
            You can write your code on one platform, compile it to bytecode, and run it on any other platform with a compatible JVM.

Key Components:

    Component	                  Purpose	                                        Usage
    
    JDK	                Development tools for Java	                    Writing and compiling Java programs
    JRE	                Runtime environment to execute Java	            Running Java applications
    JVM	                Executes bytecode on a platform	                Ensures platform independence during execution
    Java SE	            Core Java for general applications	            Developing desktop and basic server applications
    Java EE	            Java for enterprise applications	            Developing web-based and large-scale apps
    Java ME	            Java for embedded systems and mobile	        Mobile app development
    JavaFX	            Rich UI development	                            Creating graphical applications


JDK (Java SE development Kit):
    By using JDK, we can Write and compile the Java program. developers need JDK to write and compile the program.
    
    JDK = JRE + development tools (Javac, Jdb, JavaDoc etc..)
    
    > Java Runtime Environment:
        By using JVM of JRE we can run bytecode(compiled java code) of a java file and get the output.
        if we want to compile the Java source code, we need Javac (Java compiler).

        JRE = JVM + Java Class Libraries
            > JVM (Java virtual machine):
                By using JVM we can run bytecode(compiled java code) of a java file and get the output.

            > Java Class Libraries:

    > Development Tools:
        1. Compiler (javac):
            Converts Java source code (.java files) into bytecode (.class files), which can be executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).

            javac HelloWorld.java
        
        2. Java Archive Tool (jar):
            Packages compiled Java files (.class) and resources into a JAR file for easy distribution and deployment.
        
            jar cvf MyApp.jar -C classes/ .

        3. Java Debugger(jdb):
            A command-line tool to debug Java applications. Helps in setting breakpoints, stepping through code, and inspecting variables.

            jdb HelloWorld
        
        4. Java Documentation Tool(javadoc):
            Generates HTML documentation from Java source code based on comments written in Javadoc format.

            javadoc -d docs MyClass.java



## Java class and Main method.
public class Hello {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello, World!");
    }
}


    > public class Hello : 

        public: The class is accessible from anywhere. like outside the class and Packages.
            #NOTE: > The top level class needs to declare with public access modifier, you can't declare with private.
                   > if you are not using any access modifiers(public, private) it will default as Package-private.
                   > Package-private (default) means we can access outside class but only in the same package.

        class: class is a keyword to create the classes in Java program.
        Hello: Hello is the name of the class, and it follows Java’s naming conventions (camel case, starting with an uppercase letter).

    > public static void main(String[] args):
        This is the entry point of any Java program.
        
        Public: Makes the main method accessible from outside the class. The JVM must call this method to start the program.
        Static: static is a keyword in Java. The JVM can invoke this method without creating an object of the Hello class.
        Void: Specifies that this method does not return any value to the JVM after it is executed.
        Main: The name of the method that the JVM looks for when starting a Java application. Without main, the program would not run.
        String[] args: This parameter is an array of Strings used to pass arguments from the command line to the program.

    > System.out.println("Hello, World!");
        This is the print statement, it prints the value of inside the statement.

        System: System is a class in the java.lang package. It provides access to system-level functionality,
                such as standard input, output, and error streams.

        out: out is a static member of the System class.
        println: println is a method of the PrintStream class. It prints the given argument ("Hello, World!")
                 to the console and appends a newline (\n) character at the end.
        
        "Hello, World!": This is a String literal. It is the text that will be displayed on the console.

Return Type:
    In Java, the return type of method specifies the type of value the method will return when it is called.
    It is a part of the method's declaration and comes before the method's name.

    Types of Return Types:

        Primitive Data Types : int, double, char, boolean, etc.
        Reference Types      : String, arrays, objects of a class, etc.
        void                 : Indicates that the method does not return a value.

    NOTE: > If a method has a return other than void, it must include a return statement with a value of the specified type.
          > If the return type is void, the method does not return any value and does not require a return statement.